Technical Troubleshooting pages (#120)
algolia/magento: _src/m2-backend-issues.md

---
layout: m2-documentation
title: Backend issues
permalink: /doc/m2/backend-issues/
description: Technical troubleshooting - Backend issues
---

## Make sure that the extension is up-to-date ##

It can happen that you’re facing a known issue that has already been fixed. Unfortunately, if your extension is not up-to-date, you can’t know it. 

> So, keeping your extension updated is a very good way to avoid that. Not only you will get all the available fixes but also the latest features provided by the Algolia team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keeping your extension updated is a very good way to avoid that. Not only you will get all the available fixes, but also the latest features provided by the Algolia team.
```

> To be sure to have the latest released version, check our [Github repository](https://github.com/algolia/algoliasearch-magento-2/releases) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be sure to you the latest released version, check the extension's [Github repository](https://github.com/algolia/algoliasearch-magento-2/releases).
```

> And you can compare the latest release version with the version of your **etc/module.xml file** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then you can compare the latest released version with the version of your **etc/module.xml file**:
```

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/01-module-version.png" class="img-responsive" alt="Module version">    
    <figcaption>Module version in module.xml file</figcaption>
</figure>

> Or if you prefer, you can also check the used API Clients directly on your dashboard. You can find them in **Monitoring > Operations > API Client**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or if you prefer, you can also check the used API Clients directly on your [Algolia dashboard](https://www.algolia.com/dashboard). You can find them in **Monitoring > Operations > API Client**:
```

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/02-version-dashboard.png" class="img-responsive" alt="version dashboard">    
    <figcaption>Module version in the dashboard (up to date)</figcaption>
</figure>

> If a new version is available, it will be displayed next to Magento2 1.X.X

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a new version is available, it will be displayed next to currently used version (e.g. Magento2 1.8.2):
```

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/03-version-update.png" class="img-responsive" alt="version update">    
    <figcaption>Module version in the dashboard (to be updated)</figcaption>
</figure>

<div class="alert alert-info">
    <i class="fa fa-info-circle"></i>

>     If you need to update your extension, please refer to the <a target="_blank" href="/magento/doc/m2/upgrade/">documentation</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you need to update your extension, please refer to the <a target="_blank" href="/magento/doc/m2/upgrade/"><b>Upgrade to new version</b></a> guide.
```

</div>

> ## Understand how your Magento configuration determines the number of created indices your indexing ##

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Understand how your Magento configuration determines the number of indices to create ##
```

I don't really understood the sentence. What did you wanted to say? Did I get it right?

The first thing you need to do when installing the extension is to enter your credentials in the configuration.

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/04-credentials.png" class="img-responsive" alt="credentials">    
    <figcaption>Stores > Credentials & Basic Setup</figcaption>
</figure>

Once you save this configuration, if the credentials are correct, the extension will create instantly the needed indices in your Algolia application (those indices will be filled during the indexing afterwards). You can check the indices in your [Algolia dashboard](https://www.algolia.com/dashboard).

By default, the Algolia extension creates 3 different replicas for each product index. Those replicas are directly related to the sorting configuration in the InstantSearch section.

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/25-sortings.png" class="img-responsive" alt="sortings">   
    <figcaption>Default sortings</figcaption>
</figure>

> Adding or removing sortings impacts directly the number of created replicas. If you want to read more about it, you can have a look at the [related FAQ](/magento/faq/#how-many-records-does-the-magento-extension-create). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding or removing sortings impacts directly the number of created replicas. If you want to read more about it, you can have a look at the [related FAQ](/magento/faq/#how-many-records-does-the-magento-extension-create) entry. 
```

Keeping an eye on the Algolia dashboard is very useful, it allows you to make sure that you get the expected number of created indices. 

The indices created this way depend on the extension configuration about products, categories and additional sections. Their name is directly related to the defined **index name prefix** in Algolia configuration in Magento.

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/05-prefix.png" class="img-responsive" alt="Prefix"> 
</figure>

> You are using Algolia extension on your live website, but you’ll probably have to use it on a staging or dev environment too. Defining meaningful prefixes to immediately identify what index belongs to which environment is a very good practice (“prod_magento_”, “staging_magento_”, “dev_magento_”, etc … ). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are using Algolia extension on your live website, but you’ll probably have to use it on a staging or dev environment too. Defining meaningful prefixes to immediately identify which index belongs to which environment is a very good practice (“prod_magento_”, “staging_magento_”, “dev_magento_”, etc … ). 
```

Mastering your Magento / Algolia configuration and knowing how many environments you’re using should be enough to anticipate the number of indices that would be created in your Algolia application. **It’s the first step for a successful indexing**. Don’t hesitate to check this number on [the indices list](https://www.algolia.com/explorer/indices) of your Algolia dashboard. If it’s not correct, that’s probably because you missed something regarding the configuration in Magento.

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/06-indices.png" class="img-responsive" alt="Indices"> 
    <figcaption>Indices list in your Algolia dashboard</figcaption>
</figure>

Here are some examples of Magento configuration that can lead to an unexpected number of created indices:

> - **You set a different configuration on a store view or website level**. Magento natively allows its users to define both default configuration and configuration related to a particular store view or a particular website. Some of the Algolia configuration directives are configurable this way. For example, if you have 2 websites, you can decide to use different sortings on both of them, that will end on a different number of created indices for these 2 websites. This kind of specific configuration is easy to forget (especially when there’s more than 1 administrator) as Magento only displays the default configuration when you reach the page. **So, switching from a website / store view configuration to another thanks to the dropdown situated on the top-left corner of the page can be useful to make sure that no unwanted configuration was set**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **You set a different configuration on a store view or website level**. Magento natively allows its users to define both default configuration and configuration related to a particular store view or a particular website. Some of the Algolia configuration directives are configurable this way. For example, if you have 2 websites, you can decide to use different sortings on both of them, that will end on a different number of created indices for these 2 websites. This kind of specific configuration is easy to forget (especially when there’s more than 1 administrator) as Magento only displays the default configuration when you reach the page. **Switching from a website / store view configuration to another thanks to the dropdown situated on the top-left corner of the page can be useful to make sure that no unwanted configuration was set**.
```

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/07-store-switcher.png" class="img-responsive" alt="Store switcher"> 
    <figcaption>Store switcher</figcaption>
</figure>

> - **You’re not aware of the configuration on your “All Stores” page** (Stores > Settings > All Stores). This page lists [all the websites / stores / store views that your Magento is managing](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/config-guide/multi-site/ms_websites.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Configuration on your “All Stores” page** (Stores > Settings > All Stores). This page lists [all the websites / stores / store views that your Magento is managing](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/config-guide/multi-site/ms_websites.html):
```

> **Keep in mind that the Algolia extension will create a whole set of indices for every active storeviews.** If you have a multilingual website, this number can increase very easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Keep in mind that the Algolia extension will create a whole set of indices for every active store view.** If you have a multilingual website, this number can increase very easily.
```

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/08-all-stores.png" class="img-responsive" alt="all stores">
    <figcaption>All stores page</figcaption>
</figure>

> - **You’re not aware of your configuration regarding customer groups**. You decided to enable the management of customer groups in the “advanced” configuration of the extension. Now it will create a whole set of indices for every customer group in Magento **(Customers > Customer Groups)**. By default, Magento creates 4 customer groups (General, Not logged in, Retailer and Wholesale) but you may use third-party extensions that create their own customer groups. Those extensions can create hundreds of them, so be very careful before enabling customer group management in the extension’s configuration, and check the customer groups page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Configuration regarding of a customer groups**. You decided to enable the management of customer groups in the “advanced” configuration of the extension. Now it will create a whole set of indices for every customer group in Magento **(Customers > Customer Groups)**. By default, Magento creates 4 customer groups (General, Not logged in, Retailer and Wholesale) but you may use third-party extensions that create their own customer groups. Those extensions can create hundreds of them, so be very careful before enabling customer group management in the extension’s configuration, and check the customer groups page.
```

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/09-customer-groups.png" class="img-responsive" alt="Customer groups">
    <figcaption>Customer groups page</figcaption>
</figure>

## Understand why my data updates are not propagated to the Algolia dashboard ##

When your data doesn’t seem to be pushed to Algolia, it can be for 3 reasons:

- There’s an error during the process. ([see the dedicated chapter below](#investigate-the-logs-to-find-if-theres-an-error))
- If the indexing queue is activated: the indexing became asynchronous and the issue should be related to the queue processing. ([see the dedicated chapter below](#figure-out-why-your-queue-may-be-stuck))
- The product/category has a particular status that prevents it from being indexed.

Let’s have a closer look at the third reason which is the easiest one to investigate. 

<div class="alert alert-info">
    <i class="fa fa-info-circle"></i>

>     The reasons for a product or a category not to be indexed are listed in the <a href="/magento/doc/m2/indexing/">extension documentation</a>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The reasons for a product or a category not to be indexed are listed in the <a href="/magento/doc/m2/indexing/">indexing documentation</a>. 
```

</div>

First thing you can do is go into your Magento back-office, then on a product / category page and just save it without updating any values. The save event should trigger an automatic reindexing of this particular product / category to the Algolia servers (turn off the indexing queue before if needed).

There are now two interesting things to check on your **Algolia dashboard**:

- In Monitoring > tab “Logs”  you have the **“Latest operations” panel**. Reindexing a product triggers a POST request that should appear on top of the list with an url which looks like this : /1/indexes/[INDEX_NAME]/batch. 

<figure>
    <img src="../../../img/troubleshooting/10-operations.png" class="img-responsive" alt="Operations">
    <figcaption>Latest operations</figcaption>
</figure>

> By clicking on the link, you see all the details related to this request . Check on the “**Request body**” tab, you should see “AddObject” as action with all the entity attributes. Seeing this ensures that the product / category save in Magento was correctly propagated to Algolia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking on the link, you see all the details related to this request. Check on the “**Request body**” tab, you should see “AddObject” as action with all the entity attributes. Seeing this ensures that the product / category save in Magento was correctly propagated to Algolia.
```
